Digital Storymakers Foundation business plan

The business plan that follows was submitted for the semifinals of the Carolina Challenge business plan competition. More information about the competition can be found at http://www.carolinachallenge.org]

DIGITAL STORYMAKERS BUSINESS PLAN
March 2011

Executive Summary
Introduction
Digital Storymakers is a social archive site for sharing and preserving digital stories. We
combine the interactive features of social network sites with the stability of a digital
archive. Unlike common social network sites, we put our customers in charge of their
own data.
Our service allows customers to automatically collect and preserve their digital media,
whether it lives on their hard drive or at other social network sites. We also provide an ecommerce
platform for our customers to create digital stories with each other and share
their creative products with others.
60
Value Proposition
The social media landscape of today is an ephemeral place where users waste their time
and become increasingly alienated from the people they care about in their network.
Users share less and less qualitatively rich data on their networks because of privacy
fears. At the same, time users feel antagonistic towards online services that seek to
monetize their personal information to better target advertising. Digital Storymakers
instead provides customers with a meaningful social media experience – one that is
designed for sharing and preserving the important digital stories of our lives. Rather than
building a social media experience on fleeting status updates, we build our experience on
the most important parts of our customers’ lives and provide them with a digital library
that automates the organization and preservation of their files.
Competitive Advantage
Our content management system is built upon iRODS data grid technology, developed by
the Data Intensive Cyber Environments (DICE) research group at the UNC-CH School of
Information and Library Science (SILS) and Renaissance Computing Institute. We enjoy
a significant competitive advantage through our relationships with SILS and DICE.
We offer field placements, internships, and practicums to students at UNC-CH for
academic credit, significantly decreasing our labor costs. Additionally, we maintain a
strong relationship with the student body of UNC through the Carolina Digital Story Lab,
a student group founded by Mike Nutt. Through this student group, Digital Storymakers
61
is able to recruit student volunteers who are eager to gain experience in the world of
social networking.
Industry Analysis
Nearly half of online adults in the United States use a social network site (SNS), up from
only eight percent in early 2005 (Lenhart, 2009). The number of people joining SNSs is
also expected to continue rising. One of the fastest growing groups on SNSs is older
adults who are eager to use social networks to help construct the stories of their lives
(Stutzman, 2009).
Products and Services
We offer a suite of three products and services:
• Story Management System (SMS) – Our flagship product, SMS, is a content
management system for the stories of your life. SMS allows you to upload digital
media files to a personal digital library, share them with others, and preserve them
for years to come.
• Self-Publishing – Through an integrated partnership with the self-publishing site
Lulu.com, we offer our customers a way to creatively publish and share their
digital media files in a physical format, reinforcing the links between online and
offline community.
• Digital Media Consulting – We offer customers a wide range of expertise on the
use of digital media, from using digital stories in presentations to website
construction. Our consulting services are aimed at the typical consumer.
62
Team
Mike Nutt is a Master’s of Science in Information Science candidate and founder of the
Carolina Digital Story Lab, a student group at UNC-CH. His hyperlinked CV is available
at http://SMS.net/cv.
Sylvia Richardson is an Information Science student with an interest in web design and
non-profits. She spent her undergraduate years running a small special collections library
in California, and is currently working at Rex Hospital as a Webmaster Intern.
Peter Zasowski is an Information Science student with a history background and
interests in archives, digitization, and historical preservation. He is currently helping with
collections inventory at the Orange County Historical Museum and working for the
Carolina Digital Library and Archives.
Keys to Success
• Flawless website functionality and clean, intuitive user interface
• Better help pages and support system than any other CMS
• An active and collaborative user base
• Monetization from Day 1
• Access to supportive and sympathetic leaders in the higher education sector
63
Key Insight
When we don't control our own data, we aren't able to reap the full benefits of its use.
Empowering people is a much more attractive business model than using personal data to
sell advertising. We all generate stories all the time - can we make a sustainable way to
monetize that?
Opportunity
Value Proposition
Digital Storymakers provides customers with a trustworthy social platform for sharing
and preserving the digital stories of their lives.
We have an unprecedented opportunity to find a sustainable, user-centered model in the
social media market: one that simultaneously protects private data and makes sharing
digital media meaningful and fun. As social networks become bloated and less personal,
social media users receive less and less value from their social media experience, while
companies seek to monetize private information to better target advertising. Storymakers
provides a Story Management System (SMS) that allows its users to build history
together and preserve their digital audio recordings, photographs, and videos for future
generations.
In Chapel Hill, we recently suffered the loss of the Chapel Hill Museum, indicating that
we may not be able to depend on traditional institutions to preserve our history for us.
The Museum failed because nobody was willing to support the overhead costs of
64
maintenance and operation. Digital Storymakers provides a digital museum for Orange
County, constructed from the extraordinary stories of ordinary people, all through a fun,
social interface.
It is often said that history is written by the victors. We like to believe in the
democratizing potential of the Internet, but here in Orange County, we still struggle to
document the stories of marginalized populations of like the members of the Northside
and Rogers-Eubanks neighborhoods. Our SMS will allow customers to construct their
stories together through an intuitive interface, and ensure that their digital stories are
preserved in the historical record.
Storymakers has a unique competitive advantage in the field of digital preservation
through a partnership with the DICE Center at UNC-CH, where an open source data grid
technology called iRODS is being developed. iRODS is a piece of “middleware” that is
the result of 13 years of research and development to provide digital preservation
cyberinfrastructure to organizations like NASA and the National Archives. By the DICE
Center’s estimate, iRODS is 5 years ahead of its commercial competitors. Our
relationship with the DICE Center will allow for greatly reduced development costs by
offering student iRODS researchers field experiences and internships.
Competitive Advantage
Our firm has two significant competitive advantages:
1. We have a close relationship with the Data Intensive Cyber Environments (DICE)
65
Center at UNC-CH. The DICE group is interested in social media applications of
iRODS technology, has developers on staff that may be available to help Storymakers,
and two grant specialists on staff as well. According to their website
(http://dice.unc.edu/about) the DICE Center “provides expertise and software
technologies in the areas of large-scale data management for collaborative research,
digital archiving, and long-term data preservation.” The researchers at the DICE Center
wrote and developed the core iRODS technology that underpins the Storymakers story
management system (SMS). Mike has taken a class taught by two of the founders of the
DICE Center, and Storymakers has secured a letter of support from DICE Center Director
Reagan Moore.
2. Storymakers will enjoy significant cost savings by employing student labor whenever
possible. Especially during the cash-strapped startup phase, Storymakers intends to
employ as many students as possible through paid and unpaid internships, field
placements, and practicums. Such positions will be filled by students in the Schools of
Journalism, Social Work, and Information and Library Science as well as the
Departments of Computer Science and Communication Studies. Storymakers is well
positioned to be the only place near the UNC-CH campus for using social media for
service learning. Students provide us with low-cost labor, and we provide them with the
invaluable experience of crafting a social network site.
66
Products and services
Technology
Our primary software product, Story Management System (SMS), will be developed
using an open source strategy. According to the Open Source Initiative, "Open source is a
development method for software that harnesses the power of distributed peer review and
transparency of process. The promise of open source is better quality, higher reliability,
more flexibility, lower cost, and an end to predatory vendor lock-in" (Open Source
Initiative, 2009). In Storymakers' case, open sourcing SMS is also a strategic marketing
decision as it aligns us with a specific, established community whose values we share,
and provides us with lower development costs by crowdsourcing software engineering.
Products
In keeping with the Storymakers goal of bridging the online and offline worlds, we offer
two flagship products in each realm.
Story Management System (SMS)
SMS is the primary interface through which users will build and share their digital
libraries.
Digital Story Consulting
The Red Hat model for Apache server software provides the basis for this product
offering. SMS will be an open-source product; the code will be freely available for others
to download, use, and modify. However, Storymakers will possess valuable knowledge
67
about the product that others will be willing to pay for. Not only that, but Storymakers
will offer individualized, full service story-based marketing consulting. We will council
our clients on everything from the equipment and skills necessary to begin producing
their own media to the best way to reach their customers through Storymakers SMS.
Forrester research has found that media “Creator behavior” is plateauing (2010). Those
who aren’t already generating social content will need the services of a firm like ours to
provide simple, fun, inexpensive, and effective solutions to getting their stories into the
social media landscape.
Industry and Market Analysis
Market Segmentation
The ability to produce information is within us all. We all possess our experiences and
therefore a unique context for identifying relationships between entities, events, people,
etc. The target customer in this segment is primarily adults; membership in Digital
Storymakers will require informed consent about the use of personal information.
Although we will not regulate the content of our members’ stories, we will not cater to
their more prurient interests. Our customers will have a wide range of backgrounds, and
many of them will be poorer than the average demographic for social network site users
(Smith, Schlozman, Verba, & Brady, 2009), and may even be first-time SNS users.
Though our market extends internationally, we will focus on trying to serve those in our
immediate geographic area.
68
Target Market Segment Strategy
Our segment strategy is dictated by our target market: We are combining services in a
way that few other competitors are, thus providing services to many who may have been
dissuaded from technological use in the past, or unable to procure the means necessary to
create content on the web. We offer this market segment a comfortable and supportive
environment to grow their technological skillsets, earn revenue, and enjoy connecting
with others online.
Industry Analysis
In short, the software publishing industry can be characterized by the word "growth".
From 2006-2016, employment in the software publishing industry is projected to grow 32
percent (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2008). The market for "apps" in particular is
experiencing explosive growth: analysts figure that it will be worth $4 billion by 2012
(MacMillan, Burrows, & Ante, 2009). Another high-growth area in the software industry
is that of cloud computing software-as-service. This is advantageous for Storymakers in
that it allows us to both 1) access enterprise-level cloud services in a manner that scales
appropriately for our company size, and 2) offer our own suite of cloud services,
especially those related to member media storage. More generally, the rapid growth of
the software industry presents Storymakers with several risks and benefits:
Risks
• Increased competition
• Difficult to stay abreast of developments
• Computer system and network security
69
Benefits
• Large pool of highly-skilled employable talent from which to draw
• High demand for “business information”
• Increased demand for specialty software
• Falling prices of computer hardware and storage
• Increased demand for technology-related consulting services
• Opportunities in cloud computing software-as-service
Competitive Analysis
70
MediaWiki
http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki
Currently, Wikipedia.org is the best-known implementation of a web-based wiki.
Additionally, the CMS that powers Wikipedia, MediaWiki, is perhaps the most popular
wiki-based CMS. This presents a challenge to change web users’ expectations about what
a wiki can be, as many will equate “wiki” with “Wikipedia”. Several opportunities exist
for us to offer products that surpass MediaWiki in functionality and ease of use. The
MediaWiki CMS, like most CMSs, requires significant time to learn and master, but still
71
forces users to work within a relatively strict framework. SMS, on the other hand, will
have an intuitive visual icon-based interface and allow users to focus on creating and
sharing engaging multimedia content.
CONTENTdm
http://www.contentdm.org
CONTENTdm is popular digital collection management software. It is typically used by
archives, academic institutions, museums, libraries and other similar organizations. While
it allows for flexible and powerful storage and retrieval of multimedia documents,
integrates nicely with the web, and scales well, it is priced so that only those with large
amounts of cash can afford it. SMS, by contrast, will be free and open source software.
Storymakers will generate revenue not from the software itself, but from the value-added
services and products associated with our co-op.
Laughing Squid
http://laughingsquid.us
The web hosting industry is packed with competitors, so any one web host does not
represent a significant competitive consideration. However, Laughing Squid is a wellknown
example of the kind of innovative, personalized, and socially engaged web
hosting service that Storymakers will strive to offer, with a similar hybrid business
model. Founder Scott Beale explains, “The revenue generated from the web hosting side
of Laughing Squid helps to fund the art, culture & technology of Laughing Squid”
(Beale, 2006). While Laughing Squid is an established leader in the area of mixed-mode
72
social entrepreneurship, they are also quite open about their methods. Laughing Squid
will serve as an excellent model on which to base our own hosting services.
Center for Digital Storytelling
http://www.storycenter.org
The founder of this nonprofit, Joe Lambert, has done an enormous amount of work to
popularize the idea that, "Everybody has a story to tell," and that everybody can tell that
story using easily learned media production tools (Lambert, 2002). Additionally, CDS
has shown that a community technology center based around storytelling can thrive and
generate many positive social outcomes. However, CDS has focused on one particular
form of multimedia storytelling to the exclusion of all others: the 3-5 minute video,
narrated by the user, illustrated with photos and other digital artifacts, and set to music.
While this is certainly a powerful format, the focus is on storytelling. That is, for CDS,
the digital story is a fixed, linear artifact. Our company focuses on the act of storymaking.
Stories on the web can be told differently, and we intend to leverage all the capabilities of
the Internet to make stories. We make stories for the 21st century: they can be distributed,
collaborative, synchronous or asynchronous, and interactive.
Self-Publishing
Lulu
Lulu provides a channel for free publication to authors, while allowing them to retain
rights and 80% of the profits from any sales. According to the company, they add
approximately 20,000 new titles to their collection each month. Lulu’s product catalog
includes books (hardcover, softcover, electronic, and photo), calendars, CDs, and DVDs.
73
Lulu allows free uploading, but charges for any physical product orders.
Blurb
Blurb focuses on photo books, created using either the company’s online tool or
downloadable free software. In August 2010, Blurb was ranked as the fastest-growing
media company on Inc. 500’s list of private companies. With Blurb, authors can create
and upload content to the Blurb online bookstore for free, but must pay for any physical
orders. Through the company’s “Set Your Price” program, creators have the option to
mark up their products as much as they wish. Blurb pays the authors each month that
their profits reach a certain level, retaining only a flat processing fee (USD$5) for each
monthly payment. Like Lulu, Blurb allows users to upload content to the online catalog
for free, but there is a cost for each product that is ordered.
BookSurge & CreateSpace
These two companies are currently merging as part of the Amazon group of companies.
The company offers a publishing package starting at $299 for users who already have
their files prepared as PDFs, but to start from scratch, the cost rises to $758. In addition,
users can pay to access services such as copyediting, formatting, design, an ISBN
assignment, and marketing.
Authorhouse
Authorhouse starts users off with inclusive packages depending on the type of product
they want to create. Poetry book packages start at $399, while paperback, hardcover, and
children’s books start at $599. All of the options include similar services - custom design
and formatting, an ISBN assignment, and marketing.
74
Marketing Strategy
Our potential market literally includes millions of people. Because the products and
services offered by Digital Storymakers are closely tied to a specific geographic
community, and because of certain strategic alliances with UNC-Chapel Hill, our initial
members will come primarily from the state of North Carolina. It is important to note,
however, that Storymakers is a highly franchisable business. We intend to replicate the
original model in other places, each franchise developed according to the needs and
resources available in that franchise's community.
Pricing
It is difficult to compete in the social media world if your product isn’t free or have some
free offering. Our SMS will be available at a “freemium” rate based on the amount of
media stored in your digital library.
$
0
$
10
$
20
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Basic
Advanced
Pro
Pricing
Chart
GB
Storage
Cost
per
Month
75
Under the Digital Storymakers brand, users will be able to develop products based on
their uploaded creative content. Currently, there are many different avenues for selfpublication;
each company has its own strengths and weaknesses depending on the
products they focus on. Some of the most popular choices include Lulu, Blurb,
BookSurge (merging with CreateSpace under Amazon), and Authorhouse.
Promotion
In order to advertise the unique services offered under our label, Digital Storymakers
could choose from different options. One method would be a partnership with one of the
previously mentioned companies. Lulu, in particular, offers a partners program that
allows the original creator to retain 80% of the profits while dividing the remainder
evenly between the partner and Lulu itself. In the startup stages, this type of relationship
would simultaneously provide access to valuable services for the user and advertise the
name and ideas of Digital Storymakers.
Operations
Business Location
At the heart of Digital Storymakers is the idea that online social media should be
connected to offline social services. Our work will be carried out at the Digital
Storymakers Community Center. Our office will be open to visitors and those interested
in the stories of Orange County will be encouraged to use our space as a gathering and
organizing space. Users will be free to drop by to get informal advice from others on
76
digital and social media needs, as well as consult with our professional staff. Having a
welcoming, physical space in which to interact with our customers makes us unique
among our competitors and emphasizes our trustworthiness. People are the key to success
in social media - not the technology. We use technology to connect people, and our
community center allows us to directly interact with and help satisfy the needs of our
customers.
Our Community Center will be located in downtown Chapel Hill, allowing our student
employees to easily get to work. Since we are not a retail operation, we will not need
very much parking space, but this location allows us to have a high-visibility location.
Operating Facilities and Equipment
The Community Center will be equipped with all the technology necessary to manage a
large website, including computers and high-speed business class Internet connections.
However, most of our storage services will be leased through cloud vendors, minimizing
the need for expensive capital expenditures on server hardware.
Production and Operating Procedures
Our software development team will maintain a normal 40 hour/week Monday-Friday
work schedule, but we will have customer service representatives manning the
Community Center 7 days a week, 12 hours a day, from 9am to 9pm. Our Community
Center will be open 7 days a week to accommodate the all the different work schedules
that our customers are likely to have - we want to be accessible as possible to our
customers.
77
A significant portion of our operation - the self-publishing center - will initially be
outsourced through a publishing partnership with Lulu.com10. This will allow individual
authors to retain 80% of the revenue from their sales. Digital Storymakers will keep 10%
and Lulu.com receives 10%. This partnership will reduce the investment necessary to
incorporate self-publishing into our model, but provide a revenue-sharing program for
our customers. Our self-publishing market will be branded with the Digital Storymakers
name. It will be accessible online, or customer service representatives can assist
customers in the creation of products created from their own digital library.
Management
Organizational Structure
Mike Nutt is the initial registered agent of both the for-profit entity Digital Storymakers,
LLC, and its nonprofit counterpart Digital Storymakers Foundation. He is currently the
sole member of the LLC and the President of the Foundation. The dual-entity nature of
Digital Storymakers allows us to use the best features of each. Trust is a necessary
component for users to share qualitatively rich information, and so the Foundation will be
used for most of the operations that involve using members’ personal information. An
LLC, on the other hand, is good for making money. The LLC will be used as the revenuegenerating
arm of the business.
78
Management Summary
Digital Storymakers is a limited liability company that is owned entirely by its employees
and governed by a board of directors. Members and employees elect directors to
staggered two-year terms. This structure is typically referred to as an employee-owned
cooperative. Giving employees an ownership stake in the co-op empowers them and
encourages low turnover. It also encourages efficiency and quality by giving employees a
financial incentive to perform at high levels. A minimal staff will be employed until there
is enough income to guarantee a larger payroll. This staff will include a Chief Executive
Officer, a Chief Technology Officer, and a Chief Financial Officer. During the startup
phase, all three of these officers will have to be comfortable in a startup/entrepreneurial
environment, where selflessness and the ability to creatively solve problems are essential
character traits. One of the primary advantages of the co-op business model is that it
allows a company to employ volunteer labor; this is discussed in more detail below.
Chief Executive Officer
As the founder of Digital Storymakers, LLC, Mike Nutt will serve as the chief executive
officer and general manager. As Storymakers currently exists in a nascent stage, it is
expected that Nutt will take on all of the operational duties of Storymakers until such
time as he is able to hire help. At that time, Nutt will still be heavily involved in many of
the company’s internal operations, but will spend .5 FTE between developing the
Storymakers community (through evangelism and sales) and member support services.
Being visible and available to the community and potential members will help ensure that
79
Storymakers is associated with real people and not just seen as another faceless company
on the web.
Chief Technology Officer
During the startup phase, our CTO will need to wear many hats. Three broad skill sets
will be particularly valuable during Storymakers' early years:
• The ability to manage rapidly scaling data infrastructure, including the ability to
move systems from cloud vendors to in-house hardware (or vice versa) when
necessary, and the ability to discern when it such movement is necessary.
• Impeccable customer service and communication skills. To a large degree, our
reputation will be built on our ability to make technology accessible and fun to
use. The CTO needs to be able to ensure that this culture permeates every aspect
of Storymakers' technology infrastructure.
• Familiarity with facilitating open source software development and the
willingness to spend many hours fixing bugs.
Chief Financial Officer
During the startup phase the CFO will primarily be in charge of managing the accounts of
vendors and members, ensuring financial best practices, and helping with administrative
duties. As the company grows, this person will be instrumental in suggesting and
implementing opportunities for financial growth.
80
Volunteer labor
A key competitive advantage for Digital Storymakers will be the ability to utilize
volunteer labor. This will come in two primary forms: member volunteers and academic
interns.
Member volunteers: Members of the site will have the opportunity to volunteer at
Storymakers. Volunteers will receive discounts on their SMS prices. While Storymakers
will benefit from the extra labor, the continued education of volunteers will also be one of
the primary ways we measure our social impact.
Interns: Through partnerships with academic institutions, we will be able to leverage
intern labor. We will solicit students from throughout the University, as Storymakers will
benefit greatly from the infusion of interdisciplinary ideas. Interns will be particularly
useful in the software development cycle.
Strategic Alliances/Partners
From its inception, Storymakers was designed to function in a symbiotic relationship
with an institution of higher learning. The business world and the academic world have
complementary strengths and weaknesses. A partnership with Storymakers will allow
UNC to increase its level of civic engagement, be a primary community economic
development engine, and generate a high quantity of valuable research in the field of
community informatics.
Storymakers already has support from the following organizations:
• DICE Center http://dice.unc.edu/
81
• Marian Cheek Jackson Center for Saving and Making History
http://www.jacksoncenter.info/
• Carolina Digital Story Lab http://uncstorylab.org
Additionally, Storymakers expects to be an attractive source of internships and field
placements for students in the following UNC-CH departments and schools:
• School of Information and Library Science
• School of Social Work
• Department of Communication Studies
• Department of Computer Science
• Kenan-Flagler Business School
• School of Journalism
Academics that work with Storymakers will have an opportunity to see their research
labor bear fruit in an entrepreneurial setting. We will be able to provide to our partner
universities exclusive access to selected data sets collected through the Storymakers site.
We will serve as a story laboratory for them, and we will be able to provide jobs,
internships, and field placements to students.
82
Financials
First Year Staffing Plan
Name
Position Administratio
n
Software
Development
Hardware
Maintenance
Fundraising/
Marketing
Accounts/
Finances
Member
Support
Community
Development
/Sales
Research &
Development 2011 Total
Mike Nutt
Chief
Executive
Officer 0.15 0.1 0.15 0.25 0.25 0.1 1
TBD
Chief
Technology
Officer 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 1
TBD
Chief
Financial
Officer 0.25 0.15 0.6 1
TBD Interns 1.15 0.25 0.35 0.2 0.5 0.25 0.3 3
TBD
Member
Volunteers 0.1 3 0.25 0.35 0.2 0.5 0.25 0.35 5
total
FTEs 0.5 4.5 0.75 1 1 1.5 0.75 1 11
Name
Position Administratio
n
Software
Development
Hardware
Maintenance
Fundraising/
Marketing
Accounts/
Finances
Member
Support
Community
Development
/Sales
Research &
Development Salary
Mike Nutt
Chief
Executive
Officer $7,500.00 $5,000.00 $7,500.00 $12,500.00 $12,500.00 $5,000.00 $50,000.00
TBD
Chief
Technology
Officer $11,250.00 $11,250.00 $11,250.00 $11,250.00 $45,000.00
TBD
Chief
Financial
Officer $8,750.00 $5,250.00 $21,000.00 $35,000.00
total $16,250.00 $16,250.00 $11,250.00 $12,750.00 $21,000.00 $23,750.00 $12,500.00 $16,250.00 $130,000.00
2011
Budget:
FTE
2011
Budget:
Salaries
83
First Year Operating Budget
Income
Contributions 25000
Loans 25000
Foundation grants 50000
Total Support $100,000
Advertising 1000
Web Hosting Sales 50000
Domain Name Sales 1000
Membership Fees 50000
Total Revenue $102,000
Total Income 202000
Expenses
Total Expenditures 187450
Salaries 130000
Change in Net Assets $14,550
Employee Benefits 15000
Training 5000
Personnel expenses $150,000
Computer Hardware 15000
Data storage11 13200
Insurance 1000
Interest 2000
Postage and delivery 250
84
Printing and copying 1000
Rent 12000
Supplies 2000
Travel 2000
Utilities 4000
Non-personnel expenses $37,450
Startup Funding Sources
Because our brand depends on the trust of our customers through the operation of a
nonprofit entity, certain traditional funding opportunities will likely not be available to us
while other sources common to the nonprofit sector may be accessible. We are confident
that our organization will be attractive to various grantors looking to incubate innovative
approaches to technology-based community development.
However, long term reliance on such funds is not sustainable. This is another reason why
it is crucial to reach profitability as quickly as possible from our own revenue-generating
activities. It is expected that some startup costs will be provided through business loans.
We are currently engaged in competitions to raise our first round of money through two
sources:
• $15,000: Carolina Challenge business plan competition
http://www.carolinachallenge.org/
• $200,000: MacArthur Digital Media and Learning competition
http://www.dmlcompetition.net/
85
10 http://www.lulu.com/partners/
11 http://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/calc5.html
86
Business Plan Sources
boyd, danah, & Ellison, N. (2007). Social Network Sites: Definition, History, and
Scholarship. Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, 13(1), 210-230.
Cunningham, W., & Leuf, B. (2002, June 27). Wiki: What Is Wiki. Wiki. Retrieved
March 27, 2011, from http://www.wiki.org/wiki.cgi?WhatIsWiki
Facebook. (2011, March 17). Statistics. Facebook. Retrieved March 18, 2011, from
https://www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics
Friedmann, J. (1992). Empowerment: The Politics of Alternative Development.
Cambridge MA: Blackwell.
Gurstein, M. (2008). What is Community Informatics (and Why Does It Matter)? Milan,
Italy: Polimetrica. Retrieved from
http://www.polimetrica.com/?p=productsMore&iProduct=60&sName=what-iscommunity-
informatics-(and-why-does-it-matter)-(michael-gurstein)
Lambert, J. (2002). Digital storytelling : capturing lives, creating community (1st ed.).
Berkeley, CA: Digital Diner Press,.
Lenhart, A. (2009, October 8). The Democratization of Online Social Networks.
Conference presentation presented at the AoIR 10.0, Milwaukee, WI. Retrieved
from http://www.pewinternet.org/Presentations/2009/41--The-Democratizationof-
Online-Social-Networks.aspx
Moore, R. (2011, February 11). INLS 490-161: Life Time Library. Lecture presented at
the Class 5, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
87
Moore, T. D., & Serva, M. A. (2007). Understanding member motivation for contributing
to different types of virtual communities: a proposed framework. Proceedings of
the 2007 ACM SIGMIS CPR conference on Computer personnel research: The
global information technology workforce (pp. 153-158). St. Louis, Missouri,
USA: ACM. Retrieved from
http://portal.acm.org.libproxy.lib.unc.edu/citation.cfm?doid=1235000.1235035
Munson, S. A. (2008). Motivating and enabling organizational memory with a workgroup
wiki. Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on Wikis (p. 1–5).
Nutt, M., & Schwartz, G. (2008). The Story Economy: DIgital Storytelling in Economic
and Community Development. ICTs for Soical Inclusion: What is the Reality?
Presented at the Prato CIRN 2008 Community Informatics Conference, Prato,
Italy: Centre for Community Networking Research. Retrieved from
http://www.ccnr.net/pratoconf2008/NuttFinal.pdf
Perez, J. C. (2009, December 9). MySpace Opens Activity Stream to External Developers
- PC World Business Center. pcworld.com. Retrieved December 9, 2009, from
http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/184074/myspace_opens_activity_
stream_to_external_developers.html
Rogers, A. (2010, April). The Changing Librarian Skill Set: A Delphi Study of “Movers
& Shakers.” University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Rogers, E. (2003). Diffusion of innovations (5th ed.). New York: Free Press.
Schonfeld, E. (2009, April 7). Who Has The Most Photos Of Them All? Hint: It Is Not
Facebook. TechCrunch. Retrieved November 20, 2010, from
88
http://techcrunch.com/2009/04/07/who-has-the-most-photos-of-them-all-hint-itis-
not-facebook/
Stvilia, B., Twidale, M. B., Smith, L. C., & Gasser, L. (2008). Information quality work
organization in wikipedia. Journal of the American Society for Information
Science and Technology, 59(6), 983-1001. doi:10.1002/asi.20813
Thorp, H., & Goldstein, B. (2010). Engines of Innovation: The Entrepreneurial
University in the Twenty-First Century. The University of North Carolina Press.
Weil, K. (2010, February 22). Twitter Blog: Measuring Tweets. Twitter. Retrieved March
18, 2011, from http://blog.twitter.com/2010/02/measuring-tweets.html
White, K. F., Gurzick, D., & Lutters, W. G. (2009). Wiki anxiety: impediments to
implementing wikis for IT support groups. Proceedings of the Symposium on
Computer Human Interaction for the Management of Information Technology (p.
10).